Slide one.
Hi, my name is Ann, and I'm a software engineer at Google.
I work on tensorflow.js,
a JavaScript library for machine learning.
Since we launched in March of 2018,
we've seen tremendous adoption by the JavaScript community
with over two million downloads on NPM.
Meanwhile, a distinctive class
of machine learning applications has emerged
that leverage the unique advantages
of on-device computation,
such as access to sensor data
and preservation of user privacy.
In this talk,
I'll discuss how TFJS brings high performance,
machine learning to a JavaScript through standard
and emerging web technologies,
including WebAssembly, WebGL, and WebGPU.
Slide two.
slide-2
TFJS defines an API for neural network operations,
such as matrix multiplication, exponentiation, etc.
These operations call into kernels,
which implement the mathematical functions comprising
the operation for a particular execution environment.
For example, WebAssembly or WebGL.
A TFJS backend is a collection of such kernels
that are defined for the same environment.
Slide three.
slide-3
Before diving into the details of our different backends,
I'd like to provide an overview of how they compare
in terms of performance.
This table shows how our WebGL, WebAssembly,
and plain JS backends compare
when it comes to inference on MobileNet,
a medium-sized model
with a few hundred million multiply-add operations.
For this model,
our WebAssembly backend is between 3 and 11 times faster
than our plain JS backend.
Our WebAssembly backend is
between 5 and 8 times slower than our WebGL backend.
Slide four.
slide-4
This next table shows how our backends compare
when it comes to inference on face detector,
a much smaller model with only
around 20 million multiply-add operations.
In this case,
our WebAssembly backend is between 8 and 20 times faster
than our plain JS backend.
And it's actually comparable with our WebGL backend.
For example, on a 2018 MacBook Pro,
our WebAssembly backend is twice as fast
as our WebGL backend.
With SIMD enabled, it's 3 times faster.
These benchmarks demonstrate
that there is no one size-fits-all technology
for machine learning on the web.
The best choice of execution environment depends
on many factors,
including the model architecture and the device.
Technologies such as WebAssembly and WebGL
address different use cases.
And we as TFJS developers must invest
in a wide swath of technologies
in order to meet our users' needs.
Slide five.
slide-5
Now I'll go into the details of some of our backends,
starting with WebAssembly.
Our WebAssembly backend kernels are written in C++,
and compiled with EMScripten.
We use XNNPACK,
a highly optimized library of neural network operators
for further acceleration.
As we've seen,
our WebAssembly backend is ideally suited
for lighter models.
And in the last year,
we've seen a wave of such production quality models designed
for Edge devices.
But WebAssembly is steadily closing the performance gap
with WebGL for larger models as well.
A few weeks ago, we added support for SIMD instructions
to our WebAssembly backend.
This led to a 3X performance boost for MobileNet,
and a 2X performance boost for face detector.
We're also actively working on adding support
for multithreading through SharedArrayBuffer.
According to our internal benchmarks,
multithreading will provide
an additional 3x performance boost for MobileNet,
and 2x performance boost for face detector.
Slide six.
slide-6
For these reasons,
we expect adoption of our WebAssembly backend
to continue to grow.
We're eager for more users to enjoy
the benefits of SIMD and multithreading.
We're also closely following the progress
of several evolving specifications in WebAssembly,
including flexible vectors for Wider SIMD,
quasi-fused multiply-add,
and pseudo minimum and maximum instructions.
We're also looking forward to ES6 module support
for WebAssembly modules.
Slide seven.
slide-7
TFJS also offers a GPU accelerated backend built
on top of the WebGL API.
We repurpose this API
for high performance numerical computation
by representing data in the form of GPU textures,
and using fragment shaders
to execute neural network operations.
As we've seen,
our WebGL backend is still the fastest
for larger models containing wide operations
that justify the fixed overhead costs of shader execution.
Slide eight.
slide-8
Our WebGL backend is complex.
This complexity comes from many sources.
Firstly, WebGL implementations
vary significantly across platforms,
often with implications for numerical precision.
Much of our code is devoted
to hiding these inconsistencies from our users.
Another significant source of complexity
in our WebGL backend is manual memory management.
Because GPU resources are not garbage collected,
we must explicitly manage resource disposal
through reference counting.
To help our users avoid leaking memory,
we expose a utility called tf.tidy
that takes a function, executes it,
and disposes any intermediate resources created
by that function.
Despite these measures,
memory management remains a source of error
in our WebGL backend.
Therefore, we're excited about new proposals
for user-defined finalizers
that would give us more security against memory leaks.
Finally, the lack of callbacks
for asynchronous WebGL texture downloading means
we must pull for download completion.
This has implications
for both code complexity and performance.
Slide nine.
slide-9
TFJs also offers an experimental backend built on top
of the emerging WebGPU standard.
WebGPU represents an exciting opportunity
for addressing the pain points of WebGL.
WebGPU promises better performance
and a dedicated API for GPU compute.
As the successor to WebGL,
WebGPU is designed to operate directly
with low-level graphics APIs,
such as D3D, Metal, and Vulkan.
The WebGPU shading language will be directly ingested,
and will hopefully offer faster shader compilation,
compared to WebGL.
Slide 10.
slide-10
This table shows inference speeds for the Posenet model,
built on top of the resnet-50 architecture,
a large model with several billion multiply-add operations.
These benchmarks demonstrate the reality
that WebGPU has not delivered significant
out-of-the-box performance gains.
However, the technology is rapidly evolving,
and we're continuing to track progress closely.
Slide 11.
slide-11
We're excited about the potential
for future machine learning web standards
to address the recurring pain points
we faced in developing TFJS,
including lack of portability and manual memory management.
Such standards also represent an opportunity
to address the distinctive needs
of machine learning-powered web applications.
For example,
TFJS users have increasingly asked for ways
to obfuscate their models
in order to protect intellectual property.
We also hope that future standards
will preserve the features that have made
our progress thus far possible,
such as detailed profiling and access to low-level APIs
that give us the ability to define and debug operations
at a granular level.
Alright, that's it for me.
Thank you very much.